---
layout: post
title: Cron Job
tags: cron schedule automation AWS lambda
---
### Cron Job: how to make my life a little easier
I've heard "automation" will take jobs away, and that sounds bad. In my job, some tasks are easy enough to do but they take my time and attention away from other, more interesting issues. For me, automation frees up time to get the real work done.

My first exposure to automating a programming task was AWS Lambda. Instead of running a script every day at noon to create a file to store in an AWS S3 bucket, I programmed a lambda function to do it for me. 
This function is the same as the script I run from my machine plus a "lambda handler" method -- akin to a `main()` function -- that runs when triggered. For my purposes, the trigger is a time of day. [Read more about scheduling an AWS Lambda here.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-cloudwatchevents-expressions.html)

To create the trigger, I used a "cron expression." Here is an example if you haven't seen one before. The cron expression to run every day at noon is `0 0 12 * * *` There are a zillion sites that explain this, so I will not add to the pool. Instead I direct you to [the site I used to figure this out.](https://www.freeformatter.com/cron-expression-generator-quartz.html)

But what if you don't want to use AWS to schedule a repeating task? From my own (mine ... haha, NOT mine but my company's) server, I edit a cron table, or "crontab." To do that, bring up terminal and type `crontab -e`. [This site has more information.](https://opensource.com/article/17/11/how-use-cron-linux) Add your cron expression followed by the path to the executable file that you are scheduling to run. And then...sit around and wait for it to do its job.

If you don't want to sit around and wait, test with a cron expression that will trigger in a couple of minutes. For example, if it is 3:19pm and I want to test the execution of my script, I'll write a cron expression to go off at 3:21 with `21 * * * * *`. As soon as I confirm that it worked, I'll go back into the crontab and remove the line.

Note that the executable should create a log! I'll cover that in another post -- separation of concerns and all that.

